# Market Basket Analysis
Nowadays, a lively challenge for supermarket chains is to offer personalized services to their customers. Detecting the purchase habits of customers and their evolution in time is a crucial challenge for effective marketing policies and engagement strategies. In fact, purchasing patterns of individuals evolve in time and can experience changes due to both environmental reasons, like seasonality of products or retail policies, and personal reasons, like diet changes or shift in personal preferences. Thus, a satisfactory solution to next basket prediction must be adaptive to the evolution of a customer’s behavior, the recurrence of her purchase patterns and their periodic changes. In such context one of the most promising facilities retail markets can offer to their customers is market basket prediction, i.e., the automated forecasting of the next basket that a customer will purchase. An effective basket recommender can act as a shopping list reminder suggesting the items that the customer could probably need. A successful realization of this application requires an in-depth knowledge of an individual’s general and recent behavior. Market basket prediction, i.e., supplying the customer a shopping list for the next purchase according to her current needs, is one of these services. Current approaches are not capable of capturing at the same time the different factors influencing the customer’s decision process: co-occurrence, sequentially, periodicity and recurrences of the purchased items.
A major difficulty is that a large number of the rules found may be trivial for anyone familiar with the business. Although the volume of data has been reduced, we are still asking the user to find a needle in a haystack. Requiring rules to have a high minimum support level and a high confidence level risks missing any exploitable result we might have found. In retailing, most purchases are bought on impulse. Market basket analysis gives clues as to what a customer might have bought if the idea had occurred to them. As a first step, therefore, market basket analysis can be used in deciding the location and promotion of goods inside a store. If, as has been observed, purchasers of Barbie dolls are more likely to buy candy, then high-margin candy can be placed near to the Barbie doll display. Customers who would have bought candy with their Barbie dolls had they thought of it will now be suitably tempted.
